To Demonstrate of UAV elements, Flight Controller



What is a flight controller?
Physically, a flight controller is nothing more than a circuit board with
electronic chips on them. You can compare them to the motherboard and
processor in your laptop. The flight controller is the brain of a drone. A
small box filled with intelligent electronics and software, which monitors
and controls everything the drone does. And just like the brains of
different organisms, flight controllers also vary in sizes and complexity.
(picture of different flight controllers)
What does a flight controller for drones do?
I noticed that everything a flight controller does can be classified
within one of three categories: Sensing, controlling, and communicating.
Perception (sensing)
The flight controller is connected to a set of sensors. These sensors give
the flight controller information about like its height, orientation, and
speed. Common sensors include an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) for
determining the angular speed and acceleration, a barometer for the
height, and distance sensors for detecting obstacles. Just like how we
perceive as humans, the drone filters a lot of this information and fuses
some to get more efficient and precise information. Advanced flight
controllers can sense more precisely and detect differences more quickly.
Controlling
Aside from sensing what’s going on, a flight controller… unsurprisingly
controls the motion of the drone. The drone can rotate and accelerate by
creating speed differences between each of its four motors. The flight
controller uses the data gathered by the sensors to calculate the desired
speed for each of the four motors. The flight controller sends this
desired speed to the Electronic Speed Controllers (ESC’s), which
translates this desired speed into a signal that the motors can
understand.
Calculating the movements, fusing and filtering the sensory information,
and estimating the safety and durability of a flight is all done by an
algorithm. A fancy word that is used a lot nowadays which in essence
nothing more than a set of strict rules that every microchip on the board
has to apply to. The most commonly used flight control algorithm is called
PID control: Proportional Integral Derivative control. Within this area,
there is a lot of research going on, which resulted in INDI: Incremental
Nonlinear Dynamic Inversion. This algorithm reads out and reacts to
incoming information way faster, therefore making the drone flight more
stable.
Communicating
A key part of a flight controller is communication. A part of the sensor’s
job is to give out information that needs to be translated clearly for a
pilot to read, which means efficiently. An obvious thing to communicate is
its battery level, which can decide if a pilot wants to fly further or
return to the charge.
But communication goes further than from flight controller to human pilot;
with the entrance of auto-pilot programs in the drone industry, flight
controllers need to communicate with other computer systems about its
flight destination and how to get there. Communication is mostly done with
wi-fi and radio frequencies right now, but cellular solutions are also
already in use.
What kind of flight controllers are there?
There are a lot of different flight controllers on the market. They range
from very basic to expensive systems. To make it a bit more
comprehensible, I made four categories based on their users.
 FC’s for hobbyists/builders – Easy to install and perfect for
people that do not want to spend large amounts of money from the
get-go.
 Racing FC’s – Designed to be very lightweight, precise, and
responsive. Most of them are in the €50,- or less range.
 FC’s for filming – Although mostly bought included in a drone
with a camera, these flight controllers are more focussed on
creating fluent shots and accessible handling for a pilot. Within
this segment, Chinese company Dà-Jiāng Innovations (better known as
DJI) is a household name.
 Commercial FC’s – The latest segment to evolve in the previous
years. These are for the most advanced drones, capable of safe
flying and transporting high-value cargo. The biggest players in
this field are DJI and Pixhawk, but new flight controllers like
Auterion’s Skynode and Fusion Engineering’s Fusion Reflex are also
promising flight controllers in the industry.
